Hey Guys,

I've been experimenting with the idea of writhing down my code snippets and other stuffs as a micro-blog for a while. I used to write a blog in blogspot but these days I don't find writing there very entertaining, since they redesigned the whole system (I'm a bit old fashioned :( ).

Like everyone else I've been a fan of Github Wikis and Markdown, so I thought why not give this a try. Github's code highlight and markdown syntax is all I need for a programming centric blog, I don't need any fancy CSS and whatever, do I?

But maintaining an index all by yourself would be really painful (as you keep adding more and more blog posts), so I did two things for that.

* Maintained a very easy folder structure so that the folders can be sorted lexicographically without much regex parsing, the name of the file is also used to create the label in the index, so there is a simple naming convention.
* Created as simple shell script as pre-commit git-hook that automatically updates the homepage (README.md file) with two most recent posts and a table of contents.

To install the pre-commit hook, just copy it to the hooks folder.

```bash
$ cp pre-commit-hook.sh .git/hooks/pre-commit 
```

So far it's looking good. In fact if you are reading this post from the homepage, then it's generated by the pre-commit hook :). I'm going to update the scripts incrementally with more and more features if I manage to get some free time. As as proof-of-concept as of now, it works, that's the good part :)
